DICOM is short for Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine,
which is the standard for the communication and management
of medical imaging information and related data.
Throughout this course, I will refer to DICOM files a lot,
and that just means a medical imaging file that is
in the format that conforms to the DICOM standard.
A DICOM file contains the information about the imaging acquisition method,
the actual medical images, and patient information.
Remember how in the last lesson,
we talked about how there was this storage system called PACS,
where images went between the patient and the radiologist.
Well, there's actually even more that happens before the image gets to the PACS.
First, those radiation waves and
their absorption levels from the x-ray are turned into an actual image,
by a medical imaging devices software.
Next, a medical imaging tech inputs information about the patient, and finally,
the medical imaging system combines the imaging data,
information about how the image was acquired and
the data input by the tech into a single file format called DICOM.
Why is DICOM important and why was it created?
DICOM was developed by the American College of Radiologists in 1993,
to allow for something called interoperability.
What this means is that an image acquired at
one hospital can be read by the systems at any other hospital.
DICOM is considered to be one of
the most successful implementations of an interoperable standard in all of healthcare.